---
title: "An Ode to Vim"
layout: post
og_image_url: "http://rsms.me/res/gotalk-intro.png"
description: "During a recent conversation with my 12 year old sister, she stared at my screen in an iOS-brainwashed mixed with pre-teen rage disgust 'What is that program you're using?'... (cont'd)"
---

During a recent conversation with my 12 year old sister, she stared at my screen in an iOS-brainwashed mixed with pre-teen rage disgust 'What is that program you're using?'.  She was of course referring to the Vim editor with my custom color scheme, and her question raised some thoughts in my head. Why do so many software engineers prefer a barebones editor like Vim or Emacs in comparison to feature intensive IDEs such as Visual Studio or Eclipse?. Here are a few that come to mind:

1. Never having to take your hands off the keyboard. In Vim and Emacs, almost everything that you want to accomplish is simply a keystroke away. Better yet, the commands can be combined! Want to delete a word? Try 'd w'. How about deleting the entire line? 'dd'. Now, delete all the content from your cursor to the EOF? 'd GG'. From personal experience, once I was fluent with Vim's shortcuts I was way more effective and efficient in my text editing abilities than I had ever been with a mouse and cursor.

2. Lightweight. I'll never forget the dark days when I tried running Visual Studio with my 2GB, Intel Pentium powered laptop. Every time I compiled, my laptop sounded like the Big Bad Wolf, as it huffed, and puffed in its desperate attempt to build Hello World. 

3. Versatility. It's great to use the same tool for almost every language I encounter. Whether that's writing a C++ graphics engine, a Linux driver in C, a Python unit test, or a Bash Script, I know I can rely on VIM to get the job done. 

Of course, there are also cons to using these lightweight editors. One off the top of my head is searching through a source tree for a particular function or variable. While tools like CScope and PyScope can be added on as Vim plugins to ease the process of search, I still find file navigation to be much faster when using a GUI-based IDE like Eclipse or Visual Studio. 

Ultimately, the choice of editor comes down to user preference and often computational resources. As for me, I can't see myself moving away from Vim anytime soon - It is easy to use, fast, and helps me focus on developing great software. Touche Vim. Touche.
